[Music]
you know that a long time ago people
believed the earth was flat right now
we're well aware that it's more or less
a sphere and it seems ridiculous to
think otherwise when there are so many
hard facts proving it but what if those
people of the past were actually right
it turns out they could be just not in
the sense we thought about it in a
nutshell the way we think holds the key
to understanding this idea you see our
brain is a highly complex thing and
science has not yet fully explained how
it works we know however that it exists
in 3d meaning that we perceived objects
from three different perspectives length
width and height take a pencil for
example you can tell it's say 3 inches
long a quarter of an inch wide and the
same in height because it's round at the
base if it lacked any one of these
measurements it would be flat like a
drawing on a sheet of paper
now all this seems obvious and you must
wonder why I'm even saying it well the
thing is since our brain can only think
of things in a three-dimensional way it
can't hold the idea of a two-dimensional
space being real but a physicist from
the University of California Davis
James Scargill has shared a story that
2d universes can exist and even support
life and what's more our very own
universe might in fact be a 2d hologram
simply shaped to create an illusion of a
3d space to comfort our brains but I'm
getting ahead of myself here first let's
explore what dr. ScarJo means by 2d
universes initially he wanted to test
the philosophical concept that a
universe can only exist if there's a
life to observe it put simply if there's
no living thing in a universe it just
can't be real
so basically he took 2d universes as
something that can't
by any means how would you like your
apartment to be flat yes that's a
terrible pun thank you very much doctor
scar gel did some complex calculations
and was surprised to find out that
hypothetically life can exist in such
universes wait does it mean those stick
figures I sketched at my school classes
could be from another universe
I already feel lost okay the main
arguments against the possibility of
life in a 2d universe are one that
there's no gravitational force possible
in two dimensions and two that
restriction to a single plane is
allegedly too simple for life to exist
well let's break it down shall we
in his theory of relativity Albert
Einstein had an uncle and an aunt they
were among his relatives no wait that's
a different relativity sorry about his
other general theory of relativity
Albert said that moving objects with
mass create a curve in space-time
pulling other objects nearby towards
them that's how gravity actually works
anything has it and the bigger the mass
the stronger the gravity that's why our
planet orbits the Sun and not the other
way around the Sun simply has a stronger
gravitational pull okie-dokie gravity
explained but who said it can only exist
in three dimensions in fact no one did
and dr. skaros calculations showed just
that there could be a gravitational
field in 2d space so the first argument
is invalid theoretically at least the
second argument seems to be even weaker
than the first it's generally believed
that life can exist outside our dear
three dimensions because anything less
is just too simple
dr. Scargill argues here that there are
planar graphs that have properties like
neural networks in
such graphs can be drawn in a single
plane so that no lines cross each other
and only meet at their ends so they
don't need any third dimension and if
they share properties then they could
essentially be similar all of this just
might be proof that 2d universes exist
at least they can't sustain life and
that means they are possible I hope your
brain doesn't hurt yet because mine sure
does and that's not even the best part
you see many mathematicians believe that
our very own universe is 2-dimensional
itself didn't want to break it to you
like this but we're all flat here it's
just our brain again that thinks
everything around us has three
dimensions well at least that's the
theory it's called a holographic
principle and it's main idea is that the
universe is essentially 2d and it looks
3d to us because its image is overlaid
onto a cosmic horizon holograms work in
a similar way hence the name and there's
a solid scientific base to this no
worrys universe is enormous right it's
so huge in fact that a human mind can't
even imagine its size but it must have
some shape and scientists have predicted
three main possibilities the first is a
positive curve where all edges of the
universe twist in the same direction if
this is true for our universe then it is
finite that is it has an end basically
it becomes a giant ball of vacuum and
galaxies within and on top of that if
you throw something into space it will
eventually come back to you from the
other side just like it does on earth
astronomers have long since proved
though that the universe is constantly
growing and its edges are moving away
from us faster than life that means it
can't be sphere shaped so there the
second possibility is that the universe
is negatively curved
and if so it takes the shape of a saddle
this way it can expand infinitely but as
Alan Duffy from Swinburne University of
Technology in Australia explains this
would result in some pretty weird
for example if you fire two parallel
laser beams into space they would soon
start moving away from each other not
giving a hack about what you learned at
school since that doesn't happen it
leaves us with the third possibility and
that is a lack of any curve if the
universe is flat then it can grow
infinitely and it won't distort the
space-time around us that's what really
is happening to us right here right now
and it brings us back to the theory that
the universe only needs two dimensions
why should it need more right so here
you go
the whole world is flat and we don't
even realize it
well that's a huge thing to realize I
get it but what about the people of the
past did they really know something that
we don't Wow perhaps there's a simpler
and more comforting explanation let's go
back in history and meet our ancestors
the ancient humans you know cave
paintings right drawings of animals and
humans on cave walls dating back
thousands of years if you saw them then
you realize that ancient artists knew
nothing about perspective they simply
drew what they had seen from their own
standpoint if you think about it little
kids do the same there's no volume to
their drawings that's because they see
the world as it is without any
artificial concepts we adults add and it
was the same thing with ancient humans I
guess you can call them kids of the
planetary scale they didn't need to see
the earth as a sphere they just lived on
it and so they saw things clearly this
mindset stayed for quite a long while
and it got deeply ingrained within human
brains like have you ever tried to argue
about something you know is true like if
someone told you the sky is purple and
the grass is blue what would you think
me I'd first check it for myself just in
case who knows
anyway share your opinions in the
comments below the people of the past
naturally didn't want to adopt new and
radical ideas about our world
and they prefer to see it as flat but
then it was proved that it's not and the
evolution of the human mind finally
began don't think I'm nuts though
because I perfectly understand that
people have always seen objects around
them in 3d they just didn't care about
it that much and finally I have to say
that our brains can easily mess up with
us the thing is whatever we see hear
smell touch or taste is that really an
object it's our subjective perception of
it you know how it is you take a
spoonful of a delicious fish soup and it
just makes your tastebuds get all
excited then you offer a friend of yours
to try it and she goes all green just
smelling it how could you forget that
she loathes fish shame on you
but I've diverted again what I wanted to
say is that whatever you do it's your
brain that processes signals from your
organs and limbs and gives you a clearer
picture in front of you so many humans
so many views of the world and there are
literally no two worlds that are
completely identical this is just crazy
but it kind of makes you believe we
could all be living in a two dimensional
space only seeing it as 3d okay I need a
break to let this set in and you might
want one too now this blew my mind a
while ago and I got grey matter all over
the microphone just kidding of course
hey if you learn something new today
then give this video a like and share
with a friend but don't go to D flat
earth no matter what the evidence is
just yet we have over 2,000 cool videos
for you to check out just click on this
left or right video and enjoy stay on
the bright side of life the bright side
[Music]